---
id: welcome
title: Introducing AusTrakka
author: Anders Gonçalves da Silva
author_title: Senior Developer @ AusTrakka
author_url: https://github.com/andersgs
author_image_url: https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/3836603?v=4
tags:
- hello

---
Hello! And, welcome to the AusTrakka Community Page.

:::note

AusTrakka aims at providing a simple solution for real-time surveillance of pathogens across jurisdictional boundaries. It is designed with security and privacy as a first class requirement to ensure wide adoption across public health labs. Public health labs are our primary users

:::

What I hope to do in this post is introduce some of the key concepts behind AusTrakka, and hopefully get some people excited about contributing. But, first, let's start with _why_...

## Why AusTrakka?

AusTrakka is meant to be a technical solution to a long standing problem in microbial public health (public health that deals with pathogens, such as SARS-CoV-2 and Salmonella): data sharing across jurisdictional boundaries.

Why is data sharing a problem in the first place? Lots of things contribute to it, but part of it is related to keeping track of what has been shared, and with differing/incompatible methods being used across PHLs to generate similar data (rendering comparisons hard).

Other issues involve distinct legislation governing what can and cannot be shared, and in what form it can be shared. This means it can become a bit bureaucratic at times to share data. Which is not necessarily a bad thing, because it is designed to ensure privacy and confidentiality of people and business.

Genomics is providing a simple type of data that is relatively easy for (most) labs to generate, and that is portable and easily comparable. In other words, genomic data produced at different labs can easily be pooled and compared. What is even